PART Vll. clix

vor. rr.
Providence. lt differs Irorn the other vices in the suddenness of itdffl

aceess, and in its overthrow ol the mental balance. Moreover it
spreads by contagion through whole populations, and vast regions
have been devastated by it

CHAPTER VIII.

Examples oi seli-restraint. ln contending against this vice, it will
be uselul to recall the examples oi those whohave succeeded in over-
coming it. Socrates is one ol the most striking ol these. Plato is
another. Oi Archytas, Xenophon, Diogenes, Democritus, Heraclitus,
similar laets are recorded. KIngs and rulers have shown the same
seli-mastery. Antigonus dealt indulgently with those whom he over·
heard speaking ill of him. Philip of Macedon sorbore to punish an
Athenian ambassador who had grossly insulted him. Even Alexander
could at times restrain himsell. Pisistratus aud Cato may also be

mentioned, and the hehaviour oi Augustus to Timagenes should not
beforgotten .......... 290-294

‘CHAPTER lX.

We now pass to the direct remediee against this vice. One is the
resolution to iuqulre into the facts ol the case helore we give way to
anger. We should walt, and we should demand sure evidence ol the
injury. We should guard against the suspicions temper, agalast
readiness to take offence, and not allow, as so often happens, anger
to be its own evidence. We should beware ol expecting too much
lrorn our friends. To Caesar his friends were more fatal than his
enemies, on account oi the unreasonable expectatious which they
had founded on theIr friendship. The second remedy is to insist on
delay before punishing an offence, so that the angry mood may pass,
and meanwhile to restraIn every external sign ol anger, whether iu
voice or gesture. This was always the'habit oi Socrates. Meanwhile

every effen should be made to find excuse ior the alleged perpetrator
ol the wrong. Finally, it should always be remembered that the
injurer is a follow-citizen, or at least a member ol that greatest oi
communities, the human race. The offender is either on equal, an
inlen'or, or a superlor. ln each case there is a special ground lor
relraining from revenge. The enormityof the ravages resulting from
this vice is my excuse lor dwelling upon it at such length . . att-298

CHAPTER X.

From the subject ol Anger l pass to that oi patient enduranoe ot
missortune. And first, since there is a moral goverumentoi the world,
why do good men sufferi Seneca in his essay on this point says

 

